---
layout: post
title:  "Solidification from an undercooled melt. Flat surface instability"
picture: /pics/flatSurfaceSolidification.png
short: The videos demonstrates the solidification process of a small seed placed into an undercooled melt. The undercooled melt starts to solidify on the seed surface. The solidification process is accomplished by latent heat release. This process leads to different interesting snowflakes shapes.
date:   2022-09-20
categories: video
---

## Crystallization with initially flat interface

The videos demonstrate the [freezing (solidification) process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freezing) of a flat crystalline surface placed into an undercooled melt. 
The crystalline interface triggers the solidification process on it.
The latent heat release caused by the phase-transition suppresses decreases the crystal growth rate. 
The interplay of the latent heat release and heat withdrawal from the growth region results in so-called [dendritic growth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dendrite_(metal)). 
Heat transport efficiency governs the local growth rate. 
The needle shape ensures  an efficient heat withdraw.  Therefore, formation of the dendritic structure (needle shaped crystalls) is typical for such systems. 
The orientation of the growing patterns is a function of the crystal properties like growth kinetics and surface energy. 
Here you can find specific cases corresponding to the so-called 4-fold (2D) and 6-fold (3D). 

### Dendritic growth and flat surface instability in 2D


<iframe width="800" height="450" 
src="https://youtube.com/embed/nOSNr4RvGws?controls=1&playlist=nOSNr4RvGws&loop=1" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

### Dendritic growth and flat surface instability in 2D. Crystallographic directions rotated \\(10^o\\) 


<iframe width="800" height="450" 
src="https://youtube.com/embed/HBBGT87tll0?controls=1&playlist=HBBGT87tll0&loop=1" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>


### Dendritic growth and flat surface instability in 3D

<iframe width="800" height="450" 
src="https://youtube.com/embed/WipOp-3D-kw?controls=1&playlist=WipOp-3D-kw&loop=1" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

## Theory of solidification

The [crystallization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freezing) in pure materials is described by the movement of the interface and by the temperature field. 
This system is modeled by the so-called [Stefan problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_problem). 
A system consists of two phases, _solid_ and _liquid_. 
They are separated by a sharp interface, \\(\Upsilon\\), which moves according to the local conditions. 
These two phases are described using different material parameters, e.g. heat capacities \\(c_{ps}\\), \\(c_{pl}\\) and heat conductivities \\(K_s\\), \\(K_l\\), 
where indices \\(s\\) and \\(l\\) stand for \\(solid\\) and \\(liquid\\), respectively. 
The phase-transition is defined through the melting-point temperature \\(T_m\\) and [latent heat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latent_heat) \\(L\\). 
The classic sharp-interface model of solidification in a pure material may be written as:

\\[ c_{ps}\frac{\partial T_s}{\partial t}  =  \nabla[K_s\nabla T_s],\\]
\\[ c_{pl}\frac{\partial T_l}{\partial t}  =  \nabla[K_l\nabla T_l],\\]
\\[ L V = K_s\frac{\partial T_s}{\partial n}\vert_{x\in\Upsilon} - K_l\frac{\partial T_l}{\partial n}\vert_{x\in\Upsilon}, \\]
\\[T_s\vert_{x\in\Upsilon} = T_l\vert_{x\in\Upsilon} = T_m- V/\mu - \Gamma \kappa,\\]


where \\(T_s\\), \\(T_l\\) are temperature fields in solid and liquid phases, respectively, and \\(V\\) is a local growth velocity. 
\\(\mu\\) and \\(\Gamma\\) are kinetic and Gibbs-Thomson coefficients, respectively. 
\\(\kappa\\) is the curvature of the interface \\(\Upsilon\\).
\\(\vec n\\) is a unit vector normal to \\(\Upsilon\\) oriented from the \\(solid\\) to the \\(liquid\\) phase. 
The first two equations describe heat transport in solids and liquids. Eq. XX defines heat transport through the interface and the release of the latent heat during solidification. 
The last equation governs the movement of the interface, taking into account the kinetic and [Gibbs-Thomson effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibbs%E2%80%93Thomson_equation).  



